
https://www.tvusd.k12.ca.us/cms/lib/CA02208611/Centricity/Domain/5740/project%20opt%203%20psychoanalysis.pdf

House Tree Person Drawings "Just for fun & be responsible and protect privacy" Due Nov 6, length... 1/2 to 1 page 
typed. Place in notebook as an assignment & possible extra credit points. Include the 3 drawings.
The House-Tree-Person (H-T-P) projective technique developed by John Buck was originally an outgrowth of the Goodenough scale 
utilized to assess intellectual functioning. Buck felt artistic creativity represented a stream of personality characteristics that flowed
onto graphic art. He believed that through drawings, subjects objectified unconscious difficulties by sketching the inner image of 
primary process. 
Since it was assumed that the content and quality of the H-T-P was not attributable to the stimulus itself, he believed it had to be 
rooted in the individual's basic personality. Since the H-T-P was an outcropping of an intelligence test, Buck developed a quantitative 
scoring system to appraise gross classification levels of intelligence along with at qualitative interpretive analysis to appraise global 
personality characteristics. 
How to Start ... Use three pieces of plain white 8.5xl 1 paper, give the first and say "Here I want you to draw as good a house as you 
can." Question, give the next sheet. "Draw as good a tree as you can", question, give the next sheet. "Draw as good a person as you 
can," (if a profile or head only, say, "Wait, I want you to draw a whole person, not just the head or profile"). 
The child is told to draw (I) a house, (2) a tree, and (3) a person on white paper. The figure gives the therapist some indication of how 
the child perceives himselfofherselfin the world (the figure is usually considered to be a reflection of the self). 
The Questions ... Ask questions after each picture is drawn:
Person 
Who is this person, how old are they, what's their favorite thing to do, what's something they do not like, has anyone tried to hurt 
them, who looks out for them? 
House 
Who lives here, are they happy, what goes on inside, what's it like at night, do people visit here, what else do the people in the house 
want to add to the drawing? 
Tree 
What kind of tree is this, how old is it, what season is it, has anyone tried to cut it down, what else grows nearby, who waters the tree, 
trees need sunshine to live so does it get enough sunshine? 
For instance, the branches of the Tree overextended upward or outward frequently mirror the subject's overstriving for achievement. 
Plancing of the windows against the wall of the House so that the side of the House serves also as one side of the windows implies 
feelings of insecurity. If only a part of the Person is drawn in a profile view (for example, head in profile, body in front view), it 
appears to reflect an evasive attitude in social relations. 
Lack of many details, incomplete wholes, and use of very faint lines are a combination found in subjects who are deeply depressed. A 
ground line sloping downward and away from the drawn whole on either side may reflect a feeling of isolation, exposure, and 
helplessness in the face of environmental pressures. 
Richard Niolon, Ph.D., Chicago School of Professional Psychology, Spring 2003 



https://www.studocu.com/row/document/riphah-international-university/clinical-psychology/guidelines-for-the-interpretations-of-house-tree-person-test/31465478

House Tree Person Drawings

The   House-Tree-Person   (H-T-P)   projective   technique   developed   by   John   Buck   wasoriginally   an   outgrowth   of   the   Goodenough   scale   utilized   to   assess   intellectualfunctioning.   Buck   felt   artistic   creativity   represented   a   stream   of   personalitycharacteristics that flowed onto graphic art. He believed that through drawings, subjectsobjectified unconscious difficulties by sketching the inner image of primary process. Since it was assumed that the content and quality of the H-T-P was not attributable to thestimulus itself, he believed it had to be rooted in the individual’s basic personality. Sincethe H-T-P was an   outcropping   of  an  intelligence  test,   Buck  developed  a quantitativescoring   system   to   appraise   gross   classification   levels   of   intelligence   along   with   atqualitative interpretive analysis to appraise global personality characteristics. How to Start  . . . Use three pieces of plain white 8.5x11 paper, give the first and say"Here I want you to draw as good a house as you can." Question, give the next sheet."Draw as good a tree as you can", question, give the next sheet. "Draw as good a personas you can," (if a profile or head only, say, "Wait, I want you to draw a whole person, notjust the head or profile").  The child is told to draw (1) a house, (2) a tree, and (3) a person on white paper. Thefigure gives the therapist some indication of how the child perceives himself of herself inthe world (the figure is usually considered to be a reflection of the self). The Questions . . . Ask questions after each picture is drawn: Person Who is this person, how old are they, what's their favorite thing to do, what's somethingthey do not like, has anyone tried to hurt them, who looks out for them? House Who lives here, are they happy, what goes on inside, what's it like at night, do peoplevisit here, what else do the people in the house want to add to the drawing? Tree What kind of tree is this, how old is it, what season is it, has anyone tried to cut it down,what else grows nearby, who waters the tree, trees need sunshine to live so does it getenough sunshine?  For instance, the branches of the Tree overextended upward or outward frequently mirrorthe subject's over striving for achievement. Placing of the windows against the wall of theHouse so  that  the side of the House serves  also as one side of  the windows impliesfeelings of insecurity. If only a part of the Person is drawn in a profile view (for example,
head in profile, body in front view), it appears to reflect an evasive attitude in socialrelations. Lack of many details, incomplete wholes, and use of very faint lines are a combinationfound in subjects who are deeply depressed. A ground line sloping downward and awayfrom the drawn whole on either side may reflect a feeling of isolation, exposure, andhelplessness in the face of environmental pressures.House interpretations are loosely based on research and on the symbolic meaning of theaspects of the house. They should hopefully be nurturing places with normal levels ofdetail and normal size. Too little and the client may reject family life; too big and theymay be overwhelmed by it. Lines and walls represent boundaries and strengths of the ego, thus weak lines in thestructure of the house are weaknesses in the ego, while strong lines are problems withanxiety and a need to reinforce boundaries. The roof symbolizes the fantasy life, and extra attention to it can indicate extra attentionto fantasy and ideation, while incomplete, tiny, or burning roofs can indicate avoidance ofoverpowering and frightening fantasies (think about fears of ghosts in the attic - these arebased on the association for us). Windows, doors, and sidewalks are all ways that others enter or see into the house, sothey   relate   to   openness,   willingness   to   interact   with   others,   and   ideas   about   theenvironment.   Thus,   shades,   shutters,   bars,   curtains,   and   long   and   winding   sidewalksindicate some unwillingness to reveal much about yourself (think about expression likewindows to the soul or the door to the mind). Cars could be signs of visitors coming orpeople in the home leaving. Lights could be signs to welcome visitors or reveal prowlers.Open doors or many windows could mean strong needs to engage others. Big windows,especially in the bathroom, could be exhibitionistic desires. Psychotics tends to show ground lines (their need for grounding), clear visions of theinsides of the house (they believe their thoughts and mind are open to view by others),strange angles (like their strange thought processes), or a house on the verge of a collapse(like their ego). Tree  interpretations:  The  trunk  is   seen to   represent   the ego.   sense  of  self,   and  theintactness  of the personality. Thus heavy lines or shadings to represent bark indicateanxiety about one's self,  small trunks are limited ego strength,  large trunks are  morestrength... (think about the saying that a tree that bends lasts through the wind, but onethat doesn't snaps, like the ego that is flexible and healthy lasts through the world, but theinflexible and neurotic ego ends up broken). A tree split down the middle, as if hit bylightening, can indicate a fragmented personality and serious mental illness, or a sign oforganicity. 

### Visual Patterns: Draw a House-Tree-Person
https://www.psychologytoday.com/sg/blog/singular-perspective/201808/visual-patterns-draw-house-tree-person
The refrigerator door may serve as more than a gallery of children’s art.
Posted August 11, 2018 |  Reviewed by Jessica Schrader

That child’s drawing of a house, tree, or person may represent more than an element of the refrigerator-as-art-gallery. It may predict a child’s intelligence later in life. A child’s intelligence at 14 years of age may be predicted by how well he or she draws at age 4 (Arden, 2014). Some 7,000 U.S. children at the age of 4 were asked to draw a child. Figures were scored on the presence and correct quantity of human features. The more features pictured, the higher the score. Seven years later, the same children were asked to take an intelligence test. The results from the intelligence test were then related to the results of the drawing test. A pattern was found, suggesting that drawings at 4 years of age could predict later intelligence (Arden, 2014).

Drawings tell a lot about what we are thinking. The patterns we draw on paper can lead to the discovery of our biases, feelings, relationships, family, home life, self-esteem, and even intelligence. They are mirrors to our minds (Buck, 1984). For some pediatricians, it is standard practice to ask children to draw. When children draw, it helps to heal them. It shifts their mental state from stress to serenity. It can inspire a conversation between the pediatrician and child. It is far easier, for example, for a child to talk about his or her drawing than about himself or his feelings (Malchiodi, 2009).

Close your eyes. Picture a scientist in your mind’s eye. What is the scientist wearing and holding? Describe the facial features and hair. What kinds of equipment are in the picture? Now, open your eyes, and, quickly draw the scientist! After you have finished, ask yourself, is the scientist male and white? Does the scientist have wild hair and wear glasses? Is the scientist wearing a lab coat and working in a laboratory surrounded by test tubes, beakers, a microscope, etc. Were you imaging Albert Einstein?

If you answered "yes" to most of these questions, your mental image agrees with the visual pattern most people picture when they draw a scientist (Symington, 2006). What is wrong with this picture? The answer is that it stereotypes scientists who are not necessarily male, white, or work in a laboratory. It confirms what two anthropologists confirmed more than 50 years ago when they tested how more than 3,500 high school students pictured a scientist. The most popular image was a study in white and maleness. By the fifth grade, the stereotype of a scientist is already present and persists through adulthood (Finson, Drawing a Scientist: What We Do and Do Not Know After Fifty Years of Drawings, 2014).

Children’s art, according to experts, is filled with insights into kids’ minds if you know what to look for (Buck, 1984). Therapists use a standard technique to discover how children perceive themselves in the world. It is called draw a house-tree- person (Buck, 1984). It is the projective House-Tree-Person test in which children are asked to draw these three items. The house mirrors the child’s home life and family relationships; the tree reflects relationships that the child experiences within his or her environment; and, the person echoes how the child feels about himself. When children reach six years of age, this is the sweet spot when their drawings really matter. Visual patterns are clues to their relationship to family and friends, and the environment and the image that children have of themselves (Dewar, 2014).

When, for example, kids draw family members holding hands, it is a good sign of a friendly relationship among the family members. Drawings created with bright colors and happy faces suggest a sense of belonging. When parents are going through conflicts of some sort, the kids will draw the parents far apart. Kids may draw themselves distant from their parents or much smaller relative to their others in the family when there is chaos in the home ranging from clutter to crowding. A child who has been abused might draw an abuser with bigger hands than normal (How to Analyze a Child's Drawings, 2013).


Robert Barkman
Family ConflictSource: Robert Barkman
When kid’s drawings were first studied to identify patterns in child development in the 1880s, it was thought that cultural differences mattered little. Because the social world of friends and families is shaped by the culture of the child, we would, however, expect drawings to reflect that. They, in fact, do. Drawings from three different cultures; German upper-class families, Cameroon farming families, and Ankara, Turkey urban middle-class families were compared in a recent study (Gernhardt, 2013).

Patterns differed in the depiction of selves and arrangement of family members in several ways. Cameroon children drew families that included members other than their father or mother. The father figure was, in fact, mostly absent. This is consistent with Cameroon culture that is characterized by an extended family of multiple caretakers and family members. This contrasts with Ankara and German drawings that show only the father and mother. Children draw themselves next to their mother and father who are the principal caretakers. In Cameroon, it takes a village. Cameroon children often draw themselves next to non-relatives. Ankara and German children often draw their figures smiling. Cameroon children do not. They are taught to control their emotions and stay emotionally neutral. It is not surprising that Cameroon children also drew the fewest facial features. It was equally interesting that Ankara children were the only group that drew eyebrows on their figures. It could be because eyebrows are important in the Turkey culture to communicate non-verbally. Tipping your head forward means "yes" but lifting your head backwards and raising your eyebrows means "no"(Gernhardt, 2013). By taking advantage of children’s love to draw, we can learn much about their inner world from the visual patterns they place on paper.